So, I know what you're thinking.  What happening to all those promises about more frequent posts?  Well, before you yell at me too loud, let me explain.  You see, I've wanted to make a post for the past couple of weeks, but I've been restraining myself.  I wanted to release the next version of Mario TD, but I've been restraining myself because I want the next version I post to be a "release candidate".  Yes, it's that close.  Rebecca and I have been working hard.  We added quite a few new enemies, a couple new levels and almost everything has sound now.  I even put in a cool (well, I think it looks cool anyway) intro/instruction section.  There are just a few things left to do, the primary one being play testing (hence the "release candidate").  Most of those things have to do with the user interface.  You'd think I did my thesis on user interfaces or something.  (I did.  That's a post for another time.)  So for those of you waiting for another update to Mario TD, I ask that you be patient just a little longer.

I can't remember if I've mentioned this on here before or not, but the statistics package that comes with my web hosting is pretty much utter rubbish.  It keeps track of a few interesting statistics, but it only records the last seven days worth of information.  What use is that?  So the other day I set up Google Analytics and it's awesome.  It gives you cool little Flash graphs and everything.  Using it I found out that I got one visitor from Germany and another from France.  I'd like to say "Hi" to all our international visitors (I'd say "Hi" to all our national visitors too, but I figure that's implied).

My new job is going pretty well.  Unfortunately, they want me to "learn the ropes" so I haven't started my every other Friday off thing yet.  I was actually going to start last Friday, but we had a company activity instead.  So my first Friday off will be next Friday.  Taking into consideration that Monday is Presidents' Day, I'll only have a three day week next week.  I can't imagine that I won't have some time to code during all that time off.